****************************************************************************
Scala'18
Call for Papers
9th ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Scala, 2018
28th of September, 2018
St. Louis Missouri, United States
https://conf.researchr.org/track/scala-2018/scala-2018-papers
****************************************************************************

Scala is a general purpose programming language designed to express
common programming patterns in a concise, elegant, and type-safe way.
It smoothly integrates features of object-oriented and functional
languages.

The Scala Symposium is the leading forum for researchers and
practitioners related to the Scala programming language. We welcome a
broad spectrum of research topics and support many submission formats
for industry and academia alike.

This year's Scala Symposium is co-located with ICFP 2018 and Strange
Loop 2018.

We seek submissions on all topics related to Scala, including (but not
limited to):

 * Language design and implementation – language extensions,
   optimization, and performance evaluation.
 * Library design and implementation patterns for extending Scala –
   stand-alone Scala libraries, embedded domain-specific languages,
   combining language features, generic and meta-programming.
 * Formal techniques for Scala-like programs – formalizations of the
   language, type system, and semantics, formalizing proposed language
   extensions and variants, dependent object types, type and effect
   systems.
 * Concurrent and distributed programming – libraries, frameworks,
   language extensions, programming models, performance evaluation,
   experimental results.
 * Big data and machine learning libraries and applications using the
   Scala programming language.
 * Safety and reliability – pluggable type systems, contracts, static
   analysis and verification, runtime monitoring.
 * Interoperability with other languages and runtimes, such as
   JavaScript, Java 8 (lambdas), Graal and others.
 * Tools – development environments, debuggers, refactoring tools,
   testing frameworks.
 * Case studies, experience reports, and pearls.

Important dates:

 * Paper submission June 1st, 2018
 * Paper notification: July 13th, 2018
 * Student talk submission: Aug 10th, 2018
 * Camera ready: Aug 3rd, 2018
 * Student talk notification: Aug 31st, 2018

All deadlines are at the end of the day, "Anywhere on Earth" (AoE).

Submission Format:

To accommodate the needs of researchers and practitioners, as well as
beginners and experts alike, we seek several kinds of submissions, all
in acmart/sigplan style, 10pt font.

 * Full papers (at most 10 pages, excluding bibliography)
 * Short papers (at most 4 pages, excluding bibliography)
 * Tool papers (at most 4 pages, excluding bibliography)
 * Student talks (short abstract only, in plain text)

Accepted papers (either full papers, short ones or tool papers, but
not student talks) will be published in the ACM Digital Library.
Detailed information for each kind of submission is given below.
Formatting requirements are detailed in Instructions for Authors.

Please note that at least one author of each accepted contribution
must attend the symposium and present the work. In the case of tool
demonstration papers, a live demonstration of the described tool is
expected.

Full and Short Papers:

Full and short papers should describe novel ideas, experimental
results, or projects related to the Scala language. In order to
encourage lively discussion, submitted papers may describe work in
progress. Additionally, short papers may present problems and raise
research questions interesting for the Scala language community. All
papers will be judged on a combination of correctness, significance,
novelty, clarity, and interest to the community.

In general, papers should explain their original contributions,
identifying what has been accomplished, explaining why it is
significant, and relating it to previous work (also for other
languages where appropriate).

Tool Papers:

Tool papers need not necessarily report original research results;
they may describe a tool of interest, report practical experience that
will be useful to others, new Scala idioms, or programming pearls. In
all cases, such a paper must make a contribution which is of interest
to the Scala community, or from which other members of the Scala
community can benefit.

Where appropriate, authors are encouraged to include a link to the
tool's website. For inspiration, you might consider advice in
https://conf.researchr.org/track/POPL-2016/pepm-2016-main#Tool-Paper-Advice,
which we however treat as non-binding. In case of doubts, please
contact the program chairs.

Student Talks:

In addition to regular papers and tool demos, we also solicit short
student talks by bachelor/master/PhD students. A student talk is not
accompanied by paper (it is sufficient to submit a short abstract of
the talk in plain text). Student talks are about 5-10 minutes long,
presenting ongoing or completed research related to Scala. In previous
years, each student with an accepted student talk received a grant
(donated by our sponsors) covering registration and/or travel costs.

Open Source Talks:

We will also accept a limited number of short talks about open-source
projects using Scala presented by contributors. An open-source talk is
not accompanied by a paper (it is sufficient to submit a short
abstract of the talk in plain text). Open-source talks are about ~10
minutes long and about topics of relevance to the symposium, for
instance (but not only) presenting or announcing an open-source
project that would be of interest to the Scala community.

Organizing Committee:

 * (General Chair) Sebastian Erdweg (TU Delft, Netherlands)
 * (PC Chair) Bruno C. d. S. Oliveira (University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong)
 * (Sponsorship Chair) Jonathan Immanuel Brachthauser
   (University of Tubigen, Germany)

Program Committee:

 * Nada Amin (Cambridge University, UK)
 * Franck Cassez (Macquarie University, Australia)
 * Atsushi Igarashi (Kyoto University, Japan)
 * Jonathan Immanuel Brachthäuser (Universität Tübingen, Germany)
 * Ravichandhran Kandhadai Madhavan (EPFL, Switzerland)
 * Heather Miller (Northeastern University, US)
 * Adriaan Moors (Lightbend, US)
 * Klaus Ostermann (Universität Tübingen, Germany)
 * Aleksandar Prokopec (Oracle Labs, US)
 * Sukyoung Ryu (KAIST, South Korea)
 * Marco Servetto (Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand)
 * Philippe Suter (Two Sigma, US)
 * Ross Tate (Cornell, US)
 * Tijs van der Storm (CWI, Netherlands)
 * Mirko Viroli (Bologna University, Italy)
 * Damien Zufferey (MPI SWS, Germany)

Submission Website:

The submission will be managed through HotCRP: https://scala18.hotcrp.com/

For questions and additional clarifications, please contact the
conference organizers.

Links:

 * Symposium homepage: https://conf.researchr.org/home/scala-2018/
 * Submissions: https://scala18.hotcrp.com/
 * ICFP 2018: https://icfp18.sigplan.org/
 * Updates on Twitter: https://twitter.com/scala_symposium
