****************************************************************************
Scala'19
Call for Papers
Tenth ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Scala, 2019
https://2019.ecoop.org/home/scala-2019
London, UK
July 17, 2019
****************************************************************************

**NEW** Paper Submission Deadline - April 16, 2019

Scala is a general purpose programming language designed to express
common programming patterns in a concise, elegant, and type-safe
way. It smoothly integrates features of object-oriented and functional
languages.

The Scala Symposium (https://2019.ecoop.org/home/scala-2019) is the
leading forum for researchers and practitioners related to the Scala
programming language. We welcome a broad spectrum of research topics
and support many submission formats for industry and academia alike.

This year’s Scala Symposium is co-located with ECOOP 2019
(https://2019.ecoop.org) in London, UK.

# Topics of Interest #

We seek submissions on all topics related to Scala, including (but not
limited to):

 * Language design and implementation – language extensions,
   optimization, and performance evaluation.
 * Library design and implementation patterns for extending Scala –
   stand-alone Scala libraries, embedded domain-specific languages,
   combining language features, generic and meta-programming.
 * Formal techniques for Scala-like programs – formalizations of the
   language, type system, and semantics, formalizing proposed language
   extensions and variants, dependent object types, type and effect
   systems.
 * Concurrent and distributed programming – libraries, frameworks,
   language extensions, programming models, performance evaluation,
   experimental results.
 * Big data and machine learning libraries and applications using the
   Scala programming language.
 * Safety and reliability – pluggable type systems, contracts, static
   analysis and verification, runtime monitoring.
 * Interoperability with other languages and runtimes, such as
   JavaScript, Java 8 (lambdas), Graal and others.
 * Tools – development environments, debuggers, refactoring tools,
   testing frameworks.
 * Case studies, experience reports, and pearls.

Do not hesitate to contact the Program Chair (nate.nystrom@usi.ch) if
you are unsure whether a particular topic falls within the scope of
Scala 2019.

# Important dates #

 * Paper submission: April 16, 2019 **EXTENDED**
 * Paper notification: May 24, 2019
 * Student talk submission: May 31, 2019
 * Student talk notification: June 14, 2019
 * Camera ready: June 7, 2019
 * Scala Symposium 2019: July 17, 2019

All deadlines are at the end of the day, “Anywhere on Earth” (AoE).

# Submission Format #

To accommodate the needs of researchers and practitioners, as well as
beginners and experts alike, we seek several kinds of submissions.

 * Full papers (at most 10 pages, excluding bibliography)
 * Short papers (at most 4 pages, excluding bibliography)
 * Tool papers (at most 4 pages, excluding bibliography)
 * Student talks (short abstract only, in plain text)
 * Open-source talks (short abstract only, in plain text)

The Scala Symposium uses a lightweight double-blind reviewing process,
so we ask that research papers, both full and short, be
anonymized. Tools papers and talks proposals need not be anonymized.
Authors should omit their names from their submissions, and should
avoid revealing their identity through citation.

Accepted papers (either full papers, short ones or tool papers, but
not talks) will be published in the ACM Digital Library. Detailed
information for each kind of submission is given below. Submissions
should be in acmart/sigplan style, 10pt font. Formatting requirements
are detailed on the SIGPLAN Author Information page
(https://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Author).

Scala 2019 submissions must conform to the ACM Policy on Prior
Publication and Simultaneous Submissions and to the SIGPLAN
Republication Policy.

Please note that at least one author of each accepted contribution
must attend the symposium and present the work. In the case of tool
demonstration papers, a live demonstration of the described tool is
expected.

# Full and Short Papers #

Full and short papers should describe novel ideas, experimental
results, or projects related to the Scala language. In order to
encourage lively discussion, submitted papers may describe work in
progress. Additionally, short papers may present problems and raise
research questions interesting for the Scala language community. All
papers will be judged on a combination of correctness, significance,
novelty, clarity, and interest to the community.

In general, papers should explain their original contributions,
identifying what has been accomplished, explaining why it is
significant, and relating it to previous work (also for other
languages where appropriate).

# Tool Papers #

Tool papers need not necessarily report original research results;
they may describe a tool of interest, report practical experience that
will be useful to others, new Scala idioms, or programming pearls. In
all cases, such a paper must make a contribution which is of interest
to the Scala community, or from which other members of the Scala
community can benefit.

Where appropriate, authors are encouraged to include a link to the
tool’s website. For inspiration, you might consider advice in
https://conf.researchr.org/track/POPL-2016/pepm-2016-main#Tool-Paper-Advice,
which we however treat as non-binding. In case of doubts, please
contact the program chair.

# Student Talks #

In addition to regular papers and tool demos, we also solicit short
student talks by bachelor/master/PhD students. A student talk is not
accompanied by paper (it is sufficient to submit a short abstract of
the talk in plain text). Student talks are about 5-10 minutes long,
presenting ongoing or completed research related to Scala. In previous
years, each student with an accepted student talk received a grant
(donated by our sponsors) covering registration and/or travel costs.

# Open-Source Talks #

We will also accept a limited number of short talks about open-source
projects using Scala presented by contributors. An open-source talk is
not accompanied by a paper (it is sufficient to submit a short
abstract of the talk in plain text). Open-source talks are about 10
minutes long and should be about topics relevant to the
symposium. They may, for instance, present or announce an open-source
project that would be of interest to the Scala community.

# Organizing Committee #

 * (General Chair) Sukyoung Ryu (KAIST, South Korea)
 * (PC Chair) Nathaniel Nystrom (USI, Switzerland)
 * (Sponsorship Chair) Jonathan Immanuel Brachthäuser (University of
   Tübingen, Germany)

# Program Committee #

 * Aggelos Biboudis - EPFL, Switzerland
 * Edwin Brady - University of St. Andrews, UK
 * Franck Cassez - Macquarie University, Australia
 * Wolfgang De Meuter - Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium
 * Sebastien Doeraene - EPFL, Switzerland
 * Edward Kmett - Machine Intelligence Research Institute, USA
 * Doug Lea - SUNY Oswego, USA
 * Ana Milanova - Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, USA
 * Ulf Norell - University of Gothenburg, Sweden
 * Nate Nystrom - Università della Svizzera italiana, Switzerland (chair)
 * Miles Sabin - Underscore.io, UK
 * Guido Salvaneschi - Technische Universität Darmstadt, Germany
 * Marco Servetto - Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand
 * Daniel Spiewak - SlamData, USA
 * Mirko Viroli - University of Bologna, Italy

# Submission Website #

The submission will be managed through HotCRP: https://scala19.hotcrp.com.

For questions and additional clarifications, please contact the
conference organizers.


