---
layout:     event
title:      'Scala Symposium 2016 &ndash; Call for Papers'
short:      "Scala '16"
event-date: '30 &ndash; 31 October 2016'
event-url:  http://conf.researchr.org/track/scala-2016/scala-2016
location:   'co-located with SPLASH 2016 in Amsterdam, Netherlands'
role:       organizer
links:
  Symposium homepage: http://conf.researchr.org/track/scala-2016/scala-2016
  Submissions: https://scala16.hotcrp.com/
  SPLASH 2016: http://2016.splashcon.org/
---


[(Plain-text version)]({{ site.baseurl }}public/plain/scala16-cfp.txt)

Scala is a general purpose programming language designed to express common programming patterns in a concise, elegant, and type-safe way. It smoothly integrates features of object-oriented and functional languages.

The Scala Symposium is a forum for researchers and practitioners to share new ideas and results of interest to the Scala programming language community. We welcome a broad spectrum of research topics in many formats.

### Topics of Interest

We welcome submissions on topics related to Scala, including (but not limited to):

 * Language design and implementation -- language extensions, optimization, and performance evaluation.
 * Library design and implementation patterns for extending Scala -- stand-alone Scala libraries, embedded domain-specific languages, combining language features, generic and meta-programming.
 * Formal techniques for Scala-like programs -- formalizations of the language, type system, and semantics, formalizing proposed language extensions and variants, dependent object types, type and effect systems.
 * Concurrent and distributed programming -- libraries, frameworks, language extensions, programming models, performance evaluation, experimental results.
 * Big data and machine learning libraries and applications using the Scala programming language.
 * Safety and reliability -- pluggable type systems, contracts, static analysis and verification, runtime monitoring.
 * Interoperability with other languages and runtimes, such as JavaScript, Java 8 (lambdas), Graal and others.
 * Tools -- development environments, debuggers, refactoring tools, testing frameworks.
 * Case studies, experience reports, and pearls.

### Important dates

 * Abstract submission: July 17th 2016
 * Paper submission: July 25th 2016
 * Paper notification: September 5th 2016
 * Camera ready: September 23rd 2016

## Submission Format

To accommodate the needs of researchers and practitioners as well as beginners and experts alike, we accept submissions in several formats:

 * Full papers (10 pages)
 * Short papers (4 pages)
 * Tool papers (4 pages)
 * Student Talks (abstract)
 * Open Source Talks (abstract)

Details for each format are given below.

Please note that at least one author of each accepted contribution must attend the symposium and present the work. In the case of tool demonstration papers, a live demonstration of the described tool is expected.

### Full and Short Papers

Full and Short papers should describe novel ideas, experimental results, or projects related to Scala. In order to encourage lively discussion, submitted papers may describe work in progress. All papers will be judged on a combination of correctness, significance, novelty, clarity, and interest to the community.

In general, papers should explain their original contributions, identifying what has been accomplished, explaining why it is significant, and relating it to previous work (also for other languages where appropriate).

The submissions should follow the [ACM SIGPLAN guidelines](http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Author/) and use a **10pt font** and **numeric** citation style. Accepted full and short papers will be published in the proceedings and will be disseminated on the ACM Digital Library.

### Tool Papers

Tool papers need not necessarily report original research results; they may report practical experience that will be useful to others, new Scala idioms, or programming pearls. In all cases, such a paper must make a contribution which is of interest to the Scala community, or from which other members of the Scala community can benefit.

### Student Talks

In addition to regular papers and tool demos, we also solicit short student talks by bachelor/master/PhD students. A student talk is not accompanied by paper (it is sufficient to submit a short abstract of the talk in plain text). Student talks are about 5-10 minutes long, presenting ongoing or completed research related to Scala. In previous years, each student with an accepted student talk received a grant (donated by our sponsors) covering registration and/or travel costs.

### Open Source Talks

We will accept a limited number of short talks about open-source projects using Scala presented by contributors. An open-source talk is not accompanied by a paper (it is sufficient to submit a short abstract of the talk in plain text). Open-source talks are 10 minutes long, presenting an open-source project that would be of interest to the Scala community.

### Submission Website

The submission will be managed through HotCRP: <https://scala16.hotcrp.com/>

For questions and additional clarifications, please contact the conference organizers.

## Keynote Speakers

We are delighted to have two excellent keynote speakers this year:

 * Laurence Tratt, King's College London
 * Jan Vitek, Northeastern University

## Program Committee

 * Nada Amin, EPFL
 * Shigeru Chiba, University of Tokyo
 * Eva Darulova, MPI-SWS
 * Sebastien Doeraene, EPFL
 * Sebastian Erdweg, TU Delft
 * Philipp Haller, KTH
 * Ricardo Honorato-Zimmer, University of Edinburgh
 * Cay Horstmann, San Jose State University
 * Lars Hupel, TUM
 * Vojin Jovanovic, Oracle Labs
 * Oleg Kiselyov, Tohoku University
 * Doug Lea, SUNY Oswego
 * Erik Meijer, Applied Duality, Inc.
 * Heather Miller, EPFL
 * Nate Nystrom, University of Lugano
 * Klaus Ostermann, University of Tübingen
 * Ilya Sergey, UCL
 * Mirko Stocker, HSR
 * Niki Vazou, UCSD
 * Tijs van der Storm, CWI

## Organizers

 * Aggelos Biboudis, University of Athens
 * Manohar Jonnalagedda, EPFL
 * Sandro Stucki, EPFL
 * Vlad Ureche, EPFL

## Sponsors

We thank our sponsors [Lightbend](http://www.lightbend.com/) and [Oracle](http://www.oracle.com/) for supporting some of the talented student attendees of the Scala Symposium 2016.
